README.md, before:

OPNsense update utilities
=========================

This is a collection of firmware upgrade tools specifically written
for OPNsense based on FreeBSD ideas (kernel and base sets) and tools
(pkg(8) and freebsd-update(8)).

opnsense-update
===============

opnsense-update(8) unifies the update process into a single tool
usable from the command line. Since OPNsense uses FreeBSD's package
manager, but not the native upgrade mechanism, an alternative way
of doing base and kernel updates needed to be introduced.

The process relies on signature verification for all moving parts
(packages and sets) by plugging into pkg(8)'s native verification
mechanisms.

The utility was first introduced in February 2015.

opnsense-bootstrap
==================

opnsense-bootstrap(8) is a tool that can completely reinstall a
running system in place for a thorough factory reset or to restore
consistency of all the OPNsense files.  It can also wipe the
configuration directory, but won't do that by default.

It will automatically pick up the latest available version and
build a chain of trust by using current package fingerprints -> CA
root certificates -> HTTPS -> OPNsense package fingerprints.

What it will also do is turn a supported stock FreeBSD 10 release into
an OPNsense installation, given that UFS was used to install the
root file system.

What it will likely do at some point in the future is moving an
installation from FreeBSD/OPNsense to HardenedBSD/OPNsense or back.

The utility was first introduced in November 2015.

opnsense-sign && opnsense-verify
================================

opnsense-sign(8) and opnsense-verify(8) sign and verify arbitrary
files using signature verification methods available by pkg(8),
so that a single key store can be used for packages and sets.

opnsense-verify(8) is almost entirely based on the pkg bootstrap
code present in the FreeBSD 10 base, but may be linked against
either OpenSSL or LibreSSL from ports.

Both utilities were first introduced in December 2015.

opnsense-fetch
==============

opnsense-fetch(8) creates a watcher process for fetch(1) and passes
all arguments to it.  The watcher then prints progress output to the
actual caller to indicate ongoing download progress.

The utility was first introduced in April 2016.

opnsense-patch
==============

opnsense-patch(8) applies upstream git patches in the order that they
have been given.  This helps to deploy fixes faster without the need
to run manual edits or file downloads since patch(1) tries to keep the
file integrity intact.

The utility was first introduced in May 2016.

Commit message:

README: document bootstrap usage for #7

README.md, after:

OPNsense update utilities
=========================

This is a collection of firmware upgrade tools specifically written
for OPNsense based on FreeBSD ideas (kernel and base sets) and tools
(pkg(8) and freebsd-update(8)).

opnsense-update
===============

opnsense-update(8) unifies the update process into a single tool
usable from the command line. Since OPNsense uses FreeBSD's package
manager, but not the native upgrade mechanism, an alternative way
of doing base and kernel updates needed to be introduced.

The process relies on signature verification for all moving parts
(packages and sets) by plugging into pkg(8)'s native verification
mechanisms.

The utility was first introduced in February 2015.

opnsense-bootstrap
==================

opnsense-bootstrap(8) is a tool that can completely reinstall a
running system in place for a thorough factory reset or to restore
consistency of all the OPNsense files.  It can also wipe the
configuration directory, but won't do that by default.

It will automatically pick up the latest available version and
build a chain of trust by using current package fingerprints -> CA
root certificates -> HTTPS -> OPNsense package fingerprints.

What it will also do is turn a supported stock FreeBSD 10 release into
an OPNsense installation, given that UFS was used to install the
root file system.

What it will likely do at some point in the future is moving an
installation from FreeBSD/OPNsense to HardenedBSD/OPNsense or back.

The usage is simple, starting with a FreeBSD 10.3-RELEASE image:

    # fetch https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opnsense/update/master/bootstrap/opnsense-bootstrap.sh
    # sh ./opnsense-bootstrap.sh

After successful reboot, OPNsense should be up and running.  :)

The utility was first introduced in November 2015.

opnsense-sign && opnsense-verify
================================

opnsense-sign(8) and opnsense-verify(8) sign and verify arbitrary
files using signature verification methods available by pkg(8),
so that a single key store can be used for packages and sets.

opnsense-verify(8) is almost entirely based on the pkg bootstrap
code present in the FreeBSD 10 base, but may be linked against
either OpenSSL or LibreSSL from ports.

Both utilities were first introduced in December 2015.

opnsense-fetch
==============

opnsense-fetch(8) creates a watcher process for fetch(1) and passes
all arguments to it.  The watcher then prints progress output to the
actual caller to indicate ongoing download progress.

The utility was first introduced in April 2016.

opnsense-patch
==============

opnsense-patch(8) applies upstream git patches in the order that they
have been given.  This helps to deploy fixes faster without the need
to run manual edits or file downloads since patch(1) tries to keep the
file integrity intact.

The utility was first introduced in May 2016.
